# Statistical-Arbitrage

A statistical-arbitrage strategy created by me and my project group for Machine Learning in Finance course in Özyeğin University. 
Main idea of the strategy is choosing companies in the similar or same industries and evaluating pairs by a cross train-test model using LSTM. Then, use LSTM to predict spread and create buy-sell signals. 

Abstract - Statistical arbitrage in pairs trading is a widely used technique among investors who do not like risk and want to benefit from short-term anomalies in the market. This research will explain our statistical arbitrage strategy and how our pair selection is done. Our project employs a cross train-test model with LSTM to decide pairs to be worked on. The companies which are the intersection of co-integration and correlation methods are also employed to compare the results with our pair detection model. As the pairs are detected, in order to create buy-sell signals from the pairs, feature extraction is made to catch important features as technical indicators with the 1D-CNN model. The relationships in time dimension are captured with LSTM to predict spread of pairs and the buy-sell signals. S&P 500 companies were used as this project’s data. However due to long running time, it is filtered to Information Technology companies in S&P 500. Overall, this study investigates a deep learning strategy to enhance investors’ abilities to identify pairs-trading opportunities using our cross train-test model and a deep learning model to predict spread and buy-sell signals.
